# Françoise et al

Designers of machine learning systems want to create systems that facilitate end-user interaction with machine learning systems, to assist end-users (who may have expertise in their own domains) with their needs and goals. However, there are no general-purpose toolkits that support designers of machine learning systems, without which collaboration between developers, ML experts, designers, and end-users is more difficult than it might possibly be. The authors cite previous research and two case studies (one from their own research experience and one from recent findings on human-ML cooperation in the medical field) as evidence.

The authors create an architecture model, Marcelle, that enables composing interactions with ML pipelines. This model follows the principles of component-based architecture, interaction-driven pipelines, composable interfaces, data persistence and communication, and interoperability with ML libraries. The model was created in TypeScript and distributed as a client-side JS library. As evidence for the effectiveness of their approach, the authors introduce two case studies that fulfil the requirements of two scenarios estabilished previously. 

Similar previous work includes Teachable Machine and Lobe, which offer an interface to create ML classifers from examples, which is suitable for non-experts with neither programming nor ML knowledge, but both use a fixed workflow that cannot be changed. RunwayML integrates many deep learning models, but is not much of a toolkit for the designer. Tools like Tensorflow support the development of interactive ML systems, but do not explicitly support the design of interactions with ML pipelines.

The main limitations of Marcelle that the authors identify relate to interoperability as well as data types and tasks. Marcelle does not support synchronization of data and models between Marcelle and Python and Jupyter, and mostly focuses on support for image processing tasks. Additionally, Marcelle's interface is minialist, which may make polymorphism in interface design harder to achieve. 