# Horvath and Myers

This paper concerns a topic of considerable interest for developers. Software developers want to be able to make sense of unfamiliar code, so that they can edit and add to it, but it is hard to keep track of the objectives of the code and locations of interest mentally, and there are few tools that can directly help. The authors do not provide direct evidence, but cite other work in this area, implicitly showing the validity of this need. 

The approach Horvath and Myers adopt is to create Catseye, an annotation tool for lightweight notetaking. In Catseye, annotations retain the original context of the code while not modifying the underlying source code, can support richer interactions such as lightweight versioning, and can be used as navigational aids. As evidence, the authors conducted a lab study where some participants used their own strategies to keep track of info, while others used Catseye. The lab study consisted of a training task, then a debugging task, and ended with a survey to assess the participants backgrounds, their experience with Catseye if in the experimental condition, and their experience completing the task. 

Related tools such as TagSEA can label specifically formatted code and make it a navigational waypoint, but do not resolve the inherent issue of cluttering the code with unnecessary information. Codepourri is a system that allows developers to annotate Python code execution steps to generate tutorials for newcomers to programming, but its annotations are more useful for other users than for the annotator/original user who made the annotations themselves.
