# Hu et al

Hu et. al. (2021) aim to allow programmers who are not experts in assembly languages to write assembly code with more ease. These programmers may know high-level concepts relating to assembly programming and be writing, for instance, for embedded platforms or programming low-level device drivers. These programmers may not be professional assembly programmers as it takes time and effort to learn and to debug different assembly languages. Additionally, they may not know exact syntax or instructions for the assembly language they are using. There is no explicit evidence given to support the understanding that programming using an assembly language is difficult. Instead, this is implicitly understood.

Hu et. al. (2021) designed a system, Assuage, that synthesizes candidate assembly programs in parallel. It allows users to give constraints (“instruction” or “location”) to the synthesizer so that the synthesizer can reduce the number of programs that it must generate. However, programs continue to be generated in parallel, notwithstanding any constraint a user gives so that a user can “backtrack” if they gave an incorrect constraint. Without keeping the parallel generation of programs, a user who gives an incorrect constraint must restart the search from scratch. Assuage also features a GUI that lets the user keep track of multiple parallel processes. The evidence for the approach theses came from studies of eighteen users. Two tasks, inspired by the Barrelfish operating system and the book Hacker’s Delight, were given to each user. While users who programmed assembly by themselves took up to two hours (after which they were stopped), users who used Assuage were much quicker, taking less than an hour in many cases.

An older program, CEGIS, iteratively generates candidate programs and checks if they violate a specification. CEGIS generates a counterexample if a program indeed violates a specification. The principal problem with this approach of complete specifications is that programs can grow in combinatorial complexity and the search space is too large for programs larger than a few assembly instructions. There is not yet much research on parallelism in this context. Other approaches include program synthesis with partial specifications, including PBE and PBD systems, but as their specifications are incomplete, resulting programs may produce incorrect behavior. Users also do not perceive them to be of great utility. There have also been research on clarifying user intent when the user-given specification is incomplete. It is possible to generate examples that distinguish multiple (plausible) candidate programs, as is done by the program REGAE (Zhang et. al., 2020).

One remarkable property of this paper is that the computers on which the users used Assuage were not especially powerful for the programs generated. Another is that while four of the five authors are from Harvard, one lone author is from the University of British Columbia. (How did that collaboration happen?)
