# Kim, Choi et al

Users who want to personalize webpages, increase accessibility, or self-repair existing issues, as well as website designers who want to create their own new web pages off of the designs of others may not have sufficient expertise to  design their own personal modifications. The authors conducted a 8-person formative study to investigate how novices might change the design of websites and how they would like to request those changes. The authors made edits to websites directly according to requests made by users during the study, and sessions lasted about 30 minutes. They found that requests were often vague and abstract and that natural language is not a panacea for personal control. 

The authors created a system that enables end-users of websites to click on a website component and saying what they want to change. The system interprets the request through an NLP pipeline and the user can iteratively edit any property. This system was constructed as a Chrome extension. To evaluate their system, the authors recruited fourty participants who reported having no experience with HTML and CSS and who were fluent in spoken English. Collecting surveys before and after study participants edited webgages using Chrome's developer tools and Stylette (the authors' system), the authors found that users found Stylette to be better to use than Chrome's developer tools.

The authors list Greasemonkey and Tampermonkey, plugins that allow for the management of user scripts that modify webpages, but these do not let end-users design their own personal modiciations. Other end-user programming tools like CrowdAdapt let users directly manipulate a page's visual design, but require users to manually perform serveral low-level operations, which can be tedious.