# Murray et al

The need is borne by clinicians (doctors) and notetakers who are treating patients that they do not know and doctors who need to synthesize, take into account, and add to the medical histories of each of their patients. This need is especially pressing for clinicians in time-limited situations, such as Emergency Department doctors, who may see up to 35 patients each shift. The goal of these doctors is to understand an unknown patient’s medical history and to add notes to a patient’s medical file as rapidly as possible: the sooner patient information is synthesized by a doctor, the sooner the doctor can think up a treatment plan. Good medical notes are also a “powerful” communication method between clinicians, letting the next clinician understand a patient. The obstacles these doctors face are that clinical documentation is “laborious to create”, that Electronic Health Records often store and display information in separate pages or windows, and that physicians must navigate across multiple sources to access all parts of a patient’s medical history, “hinder comprehensibility” and requiring frequent task-switching. Finally, there are “regulatory and billing requirements for patient records, and previous notes may not be applicable to the current visit, let alone exist”.

The authors cite four papers [8, 16 , 19 , 46] in describing the introduction of Electronic Health Records to “improve quality of care, save time, support collaboration and data sharing, and prevent clinical errors”.  They also cite papers [31, 38, 15, 8] supporting the importance of Electronic Health Records.  The authors also introduce the early history of information capture and Electronic Health Records.

MedKnowts provides an editor with a “concept-oriented view” of a patient’s medical history, which addresses the obstacle of fragmented information. It also autocompletes clinical terms in context and matches keywords, which addresses the obstacle that adding to a patient’s medical history (including History of Present Illness) is time consuming. MedKnowts also converts “auto-completed” and “post-recognized” into “chips”, allowing for live semantic highlighting and automatic population of certain data fields, again reducing a physician’s writing time. Doctors would like to be able to naturally write both structured and unstructured data (structured/unstructured data capture), and MedKnowts’s “information cards” address this need.

The authors spent a year iteratively prototyping and designing a Electronic Health Record with the help of one physician and a month evaluating the system with four medical notetakers. The prototype was deployed live among notetakers in the Emergency Department of a Level 1 trauma center and “and tertiary, academic, adults-only, teaching hospital”. The notetakers were asked to fill out system usability scales, the authors examined feature usage (interaction data), and the authors also conducted qualitative interviews.

One novelty of MedKnowts is that clinical recognition systems are often designed for post-processing rather than real-time analysis, extracting terms and information after a physician finishes documenting a patient’s visit. Systems that do process in real-time fail to map onto “standard clinical ontologies”, don’t directly support clinical decision-making. Active Notes is an inspiration behind MedKnowts, but it requires the user to use a hotkey to initiate data queries and tag concepts. Another novelty is that MedKnowts lets clinicians “access a curated subset of the medical record, displayed as a collection of concept-oriented cards”. Previous work attempted to reduce information fragmentation and physician task-switching by by presenting the entire medical record next to the documentation interface, but are hard to parse and still require the physician to synthesize information manually. Other systems summarize patient information, but incompletely. A final novelty is that MedKnowts utilizes information foraging theory, allowing physicians and notetakers to follow “scent” in searching for relevant patient information.

I’m impressed by the number of different concepts and inspirations included in the one system, MedKnowts, and I’m surprised that the system was iterated upon and utilized in a real, medical setting. It is a credit to the authors that MedKnowts was evaluated as highly as it was, but the process of introducing it to other healthcare settings will presumably be a long process.