# Wobbrock and Kientz

Wobbrock and Kientz (2016) classify contributions to the 2016 CHI conference into eight categories and consider the popularity of each category as well as the acceptance rate for papers in that category. The concern that Wobbrock and Kientz identify is that HCI is a young field and an interdisciplinary field, and so HCI and the research it produces is not as defined or codified as other, older fields. Hence the pattern and distribution of research contribution types is continuing to evolve. The picture of the types of HCI research and their relative popularity is not always clear or obvious, so Wobbrock and Kientz empirically determine this through an examination of the papers submitted to the 2016 CHI conference.

Through an examination of the papers submitted to the 2016 CHI conference, the authors consider that all knowledge generated through HCI research can be divided into the eight types identified, namely, empirical research, artifact, methodological, theoretical, survey, dataset, and opinion contributions. (They consider opinion contributions to be separate from the others because opinion contributions also have an overt purpose to persuade the reader.) Of course, on a broader level, research can be theoretical, methodological, or empirical. Wobbrock and Kientz also elucidate the key characteristics of each type of HCI research and suggest metrics by which the research in each type is judged by reviews and journal editors.

Wobbrock and Kientz take papers submitted to the 2016 CHI conference as the basis of their research. I am curious whether the distribution of papers into their eight categories would vary if they considered a different conference, either geographically (e.g. a conference in Beijing, China, for example), or chronologically (e.g. whether certain categories have become more or less popular over time). Additionally, I’m curious whether there might be so many papers that can be considered part of two specific categories that there might be later a name given to those cross-category and inter-disciplinary papers.
